Originally appearing in 2001,
Kotlin was invented to clean up a lot of things that people
didn't care for in the Java language.
It was invented and is still mostly used and
maintained by developers at JetBrains, the people who created the IntelliJ IDE.
Currently,
the only other language that appears as full
featured as Kotlin on the JVM is Scala.
Both languages got a different approach into running on the JVM.
Scala was created with the focus of creating a better Java
and a heavy use of functional programming,
where Kotlin, on the other hand, has a syntax that is much closer to Java,
but more like JavaScript.
It rids you of some of the nuances of Java,
but without the drastic syntax change that people
sometimes experience when switching to Scala.
Kotlin can also be compiled to JavaScript or Java code.
It was formally embraced by Google at Google I/O in
May of 2017 for Android as well.
Now that we've seen some of the history of Kotlin, let's look at what it means for us as far as setting up our project.